FUTIMES(3)                 Linux Programmer's Manual                FUTIMES(3)



NAME
       futimes, lutimes - change file timestamps

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/time.h>

       int futimes(int fd, const struct timeval tv[2]);

       int lutimes(const char *filename, const struct timeval tv[2]);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       futimes(), lutimes(): _BSD_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       futimes()  changes  the  access and modification times of a file in the
       same way as utimes(2), with the difference that the  file  whose  time‐
       stamps are to be changed is specified via a file descriptor, fd, rather
       than via a pathname.

       lutimes() changes the access and modification times of a  file  in  the
       same way as utimes(2), with the difference that if filename refers to a
       symbolic link, then the link is not dereferenced:  instead,  the  time‐
       stamps of the symbolic link are changed.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success,  zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is
       set appropriately.

ERRORS
       Errors  are  as  for  utimes(2),  with  the  following  additions   for
       futimes():

       EBADF  fd is not a valid file descriptor.

       ENOSYS The /proc filesystem could not be accessed.

       The following additional error may occur for lutimes():

       ENOSYS The  kernel does not support this call; Linux 2.6.22 or later is
              required.

VERSIONS
       futimes() is available since glibc 2.3.  lutimes() is  available  since
       glibc 2.6, and is implemented using the utimensat(2) system call, which
       is supported since kernel 2.6.22.

ATTRIBUTES
   Multithreading (see pthreads(7))
       The futimes() and lutimes() functions are thread-safe.

CONFORMING TO
       These functions are not specified in any standard.  Other  than  Linux,
       they are available only on the BSDs.

SEE ALSO
       utime(2), utimensat(2), symlink(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                             2013-10-29                        FUTIMES(3)
