ISWALNUM(3)                Linux Programmer's Manual               ISWALNUM(3)



NAME
       iswalnum - test for alphanumeric wide character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswalnum(wint_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iswalnum()  function is the wide-character equivalent of the isal‐
       num(3) function.  It tests whether wc is a wide character belonging  to
       the wide-character class "alnum".

       The  wide-character  class  "alnum" is a subclass of the wide-character
       class "graph", and therefore also  a  subclass  of  the  wide-character
       class "print".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "alnum" is disjoint from the wide-character class "cntrl".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "alnum" is disjoint from the wide-character class "space" and
       its subclass "blank".

       The wide-character class "alnum" is disjoint  from  the  wide-character
       class "punct".

       The  wide-character  class  "alnum"  is the union of the wide-character
       classes "alpha" and "digit".  As such, it also contains the  wide-char‐
       acter class "xdigit".

       The  wide-character  class "alnum" always contains at least the letters
       'A' to 'Z', 'a' to 'z' and the digits '0' to '9'.

RETURN VALUE
       The iswalnum() function returns nonzero  if  wc  is  a  wide  character
       belonging  to  the  wide-character class "alnum".  Otherwise it returns
       zero.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of iswalnum() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

SEE ALSO
       isalnum(3), iswctype(3)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               1999-07-25                       ISWALNUM(3)
