ISWALPHA(3)                Linux Programmer's Manual               ISWALPHA(3)



NAME
       iswalpha - test for alphabetic wide character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswalpha(wint_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iswalpha()  function is the wide-character equivalent of the isal‐
       pha(3) function.  It tests whether wc is a wide character belonging  to
       the wide-character class "alpha".

       The  wide-character  class  "alpha" is a subclass of the wide-character
       class "alnum", and therefore also  a  subclass  of  the  wide-character
       class "graph" and of the wide-character class "print".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "alpha" is disjoint from the wide-character class "cntrl".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "alpha" is disjoint from the wide-character class "space" and
       its subclass "blank".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "alnum", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "alpha" is disjoint from the wide-character class "punct".

       The  wide-character  class  "alpha" is disjoint from the wide-character
       class "digit".

       The wide-character class "alpha" contains  the  wide-character  classes
       "upper" and "lower".

       The  wide-character  class "alpha" always contains at least the letters
       'A' to 'Z' and 'a' to 'z'.

RETURN VALUE
       The iswalpha() function returns nonzero  if  wc  is  a  wide  character
       belonging  to  the  wide-character class "alpha".  Otherwise it returns
       zero.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of iswalpha() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

SEE ALSO
       isalpha(3), iswctype(3)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               1999-07-25                       ISWALPHA(3)
