ISWDIGIT(3)                Linux Programmer's Manual               ISWDIGIT(3)



NAME
       iswdigit - test for decimal digit wide character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswdigit(wint_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iswdigit()  function  is  the  wide-character  equivalent  of  the
       isdigit(3) function.  It tests whether wc is a wide character belonging
       to the wide-character class "digit".

       The  wide-character  class  "digit" is a subclass of the wide-character
       class "xdigit", and therefore also a  subclass  of  the  wide-character
       class  "alnum",  of  the  wide-character class "graph" and of the wide-
       character class "print".

       Being a subclass of the wide character class "print", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "digit" is disjoint from the wide-character class "cntrl".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "digit" is disjoint from the wide-character class "space" and
       its subclass "blank".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "alnum", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "digit" is disjoint from the wide-character class "punct".

       The wide-character class "digit" is disjoint  from  the  wide-character
       class  "alpha" and therefore also disjoint from its subclasses "lower",
       "upper".

       The wide-character class "digit" always contains exactly the digits '0'
       to '9'.

RETURN VALUE
       The  iswdigit()  function  returns  nonzero  if  wc is a wide character
       belonging to the wide-character class "digit".   Otherwise  it  returns
       zero.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of iswdigit() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

SEE ALSO
       isdigit(3), iswctype(3)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.55 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               1999-07-25                       ISWDIGIT(3)
