ISWLOWER(3)                Linux Programmer's Manual               ISWLOWER(3)



NAME
       iswlower - test for lowercase wide character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswlower(wint_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iswlower()  function  is  the  wide-character  equivalent  of  the
       islower(3) function.  It tests whether wc is a wide character belonging
       to the wide-character class "lower".

       The  wide-character  class  "lower" is a subclass of the wide-character
       class "alpha", and therefore also  a  subclass  of  the  wide-character
       class  "alnum",  of  the  wide-character class "graph" and of the wide-
       character class "print".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "lower" is disjoint from the wide-character class "cntrl".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "lower" is disjoint from the wide-character class "space" and
       its subclass "blank".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "alnum", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "lower" is disjoint from the wide-character class "punct".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "alpha", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "lower" is disjoint from the wide-character class "digit".

       The  wide-character class "lower" contains at least those characters wc
       which are equal to towlower(wc) and different from towupper(wc).

       The wide-character class "lower" always contains at least  the  letters
       'a' to 'z'.

RETURN VALUE
       The  iswlower()  function  returns  nonzero  if  wc is a wide character
       belonging to the wide-character class "lower".   Otherwise  it  returns
       zero.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of iswlower() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

       This function is not very appropriate for dealing with Unicode  charac‐
       ters,  because  Unicode knows about three cases: upper, lower and title
       case.

SEE ALSO
       islower(3), iswctype(3), towlower(3)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.55 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               1999-07-25                       ISWLOWER(3)
