ISWPUNCT(3)                Linux Programmer's Manual               ISWPUNCT(3)



NAME
       iswpunct - test for punctuation or symbolic wide character

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       int iswpunct(wint_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       The  iswpunct()  function  is  the  wide-character  equivalent  of  the
       ispunct(3) function.  It tests whether wc is a wide character belonging
       to the wide-character class "punct".

       The  wide-character  class  "punct" is a subclass of the wide-character
       class "graph", and therefore also  a  subclass  of  the  wide-character
       class "print".

       The  wide-character  class  "punct" is disjoint from the wide-character
       class "alnum" and therefore also disjoint from its subclasses  "alpha",
       "upper", "lower", "digit", "xdigit".

       Being  a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the wide-charac‐
       ter class "punct" is disjoint from the wide-character class "cntrl".

       Being a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the  wide-charac‐
       ter class "punct" is disjoint from the wide-character class "space" and
       its subclass "blank".

RETURN VALUE
       The iswpunct() function returns  nonzero  if  wc  is  a  wide-character
       belonging  to  the  wide-character class "punct".  Otherwise it returns
       zero.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of iswpunct() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

       This  function's  name  is a misnomer when dealing with Unicode charac‐
       ters, because the wide-character class "punct" contains  both  punctua‐
       tion characters and symbol (math, currency, etc.) characters.

SEE ALSO
       ispunct(3), iswctype(3)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               1999-07-25                       ISWPUNCT(3)
