WCTOMB(3)                  Linux Programmer's Manual                 WCTOMB(3)



NAME
       wctomb - convert a wide character to a multibyte sequence

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       int wctomb(char *s, wchar_t wc);

DESCRIPTION
       If  s is not NULL, the wctomb() function converts the wide character wc
       to its multibyte representation and stores it at the beginning  of  the
       character  array pointed to by s.  It updates the shift state, which is
       stored in a static anonymous variable known only to the wctomb()  func‐
       tion, and returns the length of said multibyte representation, that is,
       the number of bytes written at s.

       The programmer must ensure that there is room for at  least  MB_CUR_MAX
       bytes at s.

       If  s is NULL, the wctomb() function resets the shift state, known only
       to this function, to the initial state,  and  returns  nonzero  if  the
       encoding  has nontrivial shift state, or zero if the encoding is state‐
       less.

RETURN VALUE
       If s is not NULL, the wctomb() function returns  the  number  of  bytes
       that have been written to the byte array at s.  If wc can not be repre‐
       sented as a multibyte sequence (according to the current locale), -1 is
       returned.

       If s is NULL, the wctomb() function returns nonzero if the encoding has
       nontrivial shift state, or zero if the encoding is stateless.

ATTRIBUTES
   Multithreading (see pthreads(7))
       The wctomb() function is not thread-safe.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The behavior of wctomb() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of  the  cur‐
       rent locale.

       The  function  wcrtomb(3) provides a better interface to the same func‐
       tionality.

SEE ALSO
       MB_CUR_MAX(3), wcrtomb(3), wcstombs(3)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.55 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               2013-09-09                         WCTOMB(3)
