WCTYPE(3)                  Linux Programmer's Manual                 WCTYPE(3)



NAME
       wctype - wide-character classification

SYNOPSIS
       #include <wctype.h>

       wctype_t wctype(const char *name);

DESCRIPTION
       The  wctype_t  type represents a property which a wide character may or
       may not have.  In other words, it represents a class  of  wide  charac‐
       ters.   This type's nature is implementation-dependent, but the special
       value (wctype_t) 0 denotes an invalid property.  Nonzero wctype_t  val‐
       ues  can be passed to the iswctype(3) function to actually test whether
       a given wide character has the property.

       The wctype() function returns a property, given by its name.   The  set
       of  valid names depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale,
       but the following names are valid in all locales.
         "alnum" - realizes the isalnum(3) classification function
         "alpha" - realizes the isalpha(3) classification function
         "blank" - realizes the isblank(3) classification function
         "cntrl" - realizes the iscntrl(3) classification function
         "digit" - realizes the isdigit(3) classification function
         "graph" - realizes the isgraph(3) classification function
         "lower" - realizes the islower(3) classification function
         "print" - realizes the isprint(3) classification function
         "punct" - realizes the ispunct(3) classification function
         "space" - realizes the isspace(3) classification function
         "upper" - realizes the isupper(3) classification function
         "xdigit" - realizes the isxdigit(3) classification function

RETURN VALUE
       The wctype() function returns a property  descriptor  if  the  name  is
       valid.  Otherwise it returns (wctype_t) 0.

ATTRIBUTES
   Multithreading (see pthreads(7))
       The wctype() function is thread-safe with exceptions.  It can be safely
       used in multithreaded applications, as  long  as  setlocale(3)  is  not
       called to change the locale.

CONFORMING TO
       C99.

NOTES
       The  behavior  of wctype() depends on the LC_CTYPE category of the cur‐
       rent locale.

SEE ALSO
       iswctype(3)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.55 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               2013-11-04                         WCTYPE(3)
