FILESYSTEMS(5)             Linux Programmer's Manual            FILESYSTEMS(5)



NAME
       filesystems  -  Linux  filesystem  types: minix, ext, ext2, ext3, ext4,
       Reiserfs, XFS, JFS, xia, msdos, umsdos, vfat, ntfs, proc, nfs, iso9660,
       hpfs, sysv, smb, ncpfs

DESCRIPTION
       When, as is customary, the proc filesystem is mounted on /proc, you can
       find in  the  file  /proc/filesystems  which  filesystems  your  kernel
       currently  supports.   If  you need a currently unsupported one, insert
       the corresponding module or recompile the kernel.

       In order to use a filesystem, you have to mount it; see mount(8).

       Below a short description of a few of the available filesystems.

       minix     is the filesystem used in the  Minix  operating  system,  the
                 first to run under Linux.  It has a number of shortcomings: a
                 64MB  partition  size  limit,  short  filenames,   a   single
                 timestamp,  etc.   It  remains  useful  for  floppies and RAM
                 disks.

       ext       is an elaborate extension of the minix  filesystem.   It  has
                 been  completely  superseded  by  the  second  version of the
                 extended filesystem (ext2) and  has  been  removed  from  the
                 kernel (in 2.1.21).

       ext2      is  the  high  performance  disk filesystem used by Linux for
                 fixed disks as well as removable media.  The second  extended
                 filesystem  was  designed  as  an  extension  of the extended
                 filesystem (ext).  ext2 offers the best performance (in terms
                 of  speed  and  CPU usage) of the filesystems supported under
                 Linux.

       ext3      is a journaling version of the ext2 filesystem.  It  is  easy
                 to switch back and forth between ext2 and ext3.

       ext4      is   a   set   of  upgrades  to  ext3  including  substantial
                 performance  and   reliability   enhancements,   plus   large
                 increases in volume, file, and directory size limits.

       Reiserfs  is a journaling filesystem, designed by Hans Reiser, that was
                 integrated into Linux in kernel 2.4.1.

       XFS       is a  journaling  filesystem,  developed  by  SGI,  that  was
                 integrated into Linux in kernel 2.4.20.

       JFS       is  a  journaling  filesystem,  developed  by  IBM,  that was
                 integrated into Linux in kernel 2.4.24.

       xiafs     was designed and implemented to be a stable, safe  filesystem
                 by  extending  the  Minix  filesystem  code.  It provides the
                 basic most requested features without undue complexity.   The
                 xia filesystem is no longer actively developed or maintained.
                 It was removed from the kernel in 2.1.21.

       msdos     is the  filesystem  used  by  DOS,  Windows,  and  some  OS/2
                 computers.    msdos   filenames  can  be  no  longer  than  8
                 characters, followed by an optional period  and  3  character
                 extension.

       umsdos    is  an  extended  DOS  filesystem  used  by  Linux.   It adds
                 capability for long filenames,  UID/GID,  POSIX  permissions,
                 and special files (devices, named pipes, etc.)  under the DOS
                 filesystem, without sacrificing compatibility with DOS.

       vfat      is an extended DOS filesystem used by Microsoft Windows95 and
                 Windows  NT.   VFAT adds the capability to use long filenames
                 under the MSDOS filesystem.

       ntfs      replaces Microsoft Window's FAT  filesystems  (VFAT,  FAT32).
                 It   has   reliability,  performance,  and  space-utilization
                 enhancements plus features like ACLs, journaling, encryption,
                 and so on.

       proc      is  a  pseudo  filesystem  which  is  used as an interface to
                 kernel data structures rather than reading  and  interpreting
                 /dev/kmem.   In particular, its files do not take disk space.
                 See proc(5).

       iso9660   is a CD-ROM  filesystem  type  conforming  to  the  ISO  9660
                 standard.

                 High Sierra
                        Linux  supports  High Sierra, the precursor to the ISO
                        9660  standard  for   CD-ROM   filesystems.    It   is
                        automatically recognized within the iso9660 filesystem
                        support under Linux.

                 Rock Ridge
                        Linux also supports the System  Use  Sharing  Protocol
                        records   specified  by  the  Rock  Ridge  Interchange
                        Protocol.  They are used to further describe the files
                        in  the iso9660 filesystem to a UNIX host, and provide
                        information such as  long  filenames,  UID/GID,  POSIX
                        permissions,   and   devices.    It  is  automatically
                        recognized within the iso9660 filesystem support under
                        Linux.

       hpfs      is  the  High  Performance  Filesystem,  used  in OS/2.  This
                 filesystem is read-only  under  Linux  due  to  the  lack  of
                 available documentation.

       sysv      is  an  implementation of the SystemV/Coherent filesystem for
                 Linux.  It implements all of Xenix FS,  SystemV/386  FS,  and
                 Coherent FS.

       nfs       is  the  network  filesystem  used to access disks located on
                 remote computers.

       smb       is a network filesystem that supports the SMB protocol,  used
                 by Windows for Workgroups, Windows NT, and Lan Manager.

                 To use smb fs, you need a special mount program, which can be
                 found in the ksmbfs package, found at  ⟨ftp://sunsite.unc.edu
                 /pub/Linux/system/Filesystems/smbfs⟩.

       ncpfs     is  a network filesystem that supports the NCP protocol, used
                 by Novell NetWare.

                 To use ncpfs, you need special programs, which can  be  found
                 at ⟨ftp://linux01.gwdg.de/pub/ncpfs⟩.

SEE ALSO
       proc(5), fsck(8), mkfs(8), mount(8)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                             2012-08-05                    FILESYSTEMS(5)
