GETXATTR(2)                Linux Programmer's Manual               GETXATTR(2)



NAME
       getxattr, lgetxattr, fgetxattr - retrieve an extended attribute value

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <attr/xattr.h>

       ssize_t getxattr(const char *path, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);
       ssize_t lgetxattr(const char *path, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);
       ssize_t fgetxattr(int fd, const char *name,
                        void *value, size_t size);

DESCRIPTION
       Extended attributes are name:value pairs associated with inodes (files,
       directories, symbolic links, etc.).  They are extensions to the  normal
       attributes  which  are  associated with all inodes in the system (i.e.,
       the stat(2) data).  A complete overview of extended attributes concepts
       can be found in attr(5).

       getxattr()  retrieves the value of the extended attribute identified by
       name and associated with the given path in the filesystem.  The  length
       of the attribute value is returned.

       lgetxattr()  is  identical  to getxattr(), except in the case of a sym‐
       bolic link, where the link itself is interrogated, not the file that it
       refers to.

       fgetxattr()  is identical to getxattr(), only the open file referred to
       by fd (as returned by open(2)) is interrogated in place of path.

       An extended attribute name is a  simple  null-terminated  string.   The
       name includes a namespace prefix; there may be several, disjoint names‐
       paces associated with an individual inode.  The value  of  an  extended
       attribute  is  a chunk of arbitrary textual or binary data of specified
       length.

       An empty buffer of size zero can be passed into these calls  to  return
       the  current size of the named extended attribute, which can be used to
       estimate the size of a buffer which is sufficiently large to  hold  the
       value associated with the extended attribute.

       The  interface  is  designed to allow guessing of initial buffer sizes,
       and to enlarge buffers when the return value indicates that the  buffer
       provided was too small.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success,  a  positive number is returned indicating the size of the
       extended attribute value.  On failure, -1 is returned and errno is  set
       appropriately.

ERRORS
       ENOATTR
              The named attribute does not exist, or the process has no access
              to this attribute.  (ENOATTR is defined to be a synonym for ENO‐
              DATA in <attr/xattr.h>.)

       ENOTSUP
              Extended  attributes are not supported by the filesystem, or are
              disabled.

       ERANGE The size of the value buffer is too small to hold the result.

       In addition, the errors documented in stat(2) can also occur.

VERSIONS
       These system calls have been available on Linux since kernel 2.4; glibc
       support is provided since version 2.3.

CONFORMING TO
       These system calls are Linux-specific.

SEE ALSO
       getfattr(1),  setfattr(1), listxattr(2), open(2), removexattr(2), setx‐
       attr(2), stat(2), attr(5), symlink(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.55 of the Linux  man-pages  project.   A
       description  of  the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                             2013-01-19                       GETXATTR(2)
