REMOVEXATTR(2)             Linux Programmer's Manual            REMOVEXATTR(2)



NAME
       removexattr, lremovexattr, fremovexattr - remove an extended attribute

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <attr/xattr.h>

       int removexattr(const char *path, const char *name);
       int lremovexattr(const char *path, const char *name);
       int fremovexattr(int fd, const char *name);

DESCRIPTION
       Extended attributes are name:value pairs associated with inodes (files,
       directories, symbolic links, etc.).  They are extensions to the  normal
       attributes  which  are  associated with all inodes in the system (i.e.,
       the stat(2) data).  A complete overview of extended attributes concepts
       can be found in attr(5).

       removexattr()  removes  the  extended  attribute identified by name and
       associated with the given path in the filesystem.

       lremovexattr() is identical to removexattr(), except in the case  of  a
       symbolic  link,  where  the extended attribute is removed from the link
       itself, not the file that it refers to.

       fremovexattr()  is  identical  to  removexattr(),  only  the   extended
       attribute  is removed from the open file referred to by fd (as returned
       by open(2)) in place of path.

       An extended attribute name is a  simple  null-terminated  string.   The
       name includes a namespace prefix; there may be several, disjoint names‐
       paces associated with an individual inode.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned.  On failure, -1 is returned and errno  is
       set appropriately.

ERRORS
       ENOATTR
              The named attribute does not exist.  (ENOATTR is defined to be a
              synonym for ENODATA in <attr/xattr.h>.)

       ENOTSUP
              Extended attributes are not supported by the filesystem, or  are
              disabled.

       In addition, the errors documented in stat(2) can also occur.

VERSIONS
       These system calls have been available on Linux since kernel 2.4; glibc
       support is provided since version 2.3.

CONFORMING TO
       These system calls are Linux-specific.

SEE ALSO
       getfattr(1), setfattr(1),  getxattr(2),  listxattr(2),  open(2),  setx‐
       attr(2), stat(2), attr(5), symlink(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                             2013-01-19                    REMOVEXATTR(2)
