NSCD(8)                    Linux Programmer's Manual                   NSCD(8)



NAME
       nscd - name service cache daemon

DESCRIPTION
       Nscd is a daemon that provides a cache for the most common name service
       requests.  The default configuration file,  /etc/nscd.conf,  determines
       the behavior of the cache daemon.  See nscd.conf(5).

       Nscd  provides  caching  for  accesses  of the passwd(5), group(5), and
       hosts(5) databases through standard libc  interfaces,  such  as  getpw‐
       nam(3),  getpwuid(3),  getgrnam(3),  getgrgid(3), gethostbyname(3), and
       others.

       There are two caches for each database: a positive one for items found,
       and  a negative one for items not found.  Each cache has a separate TTL
       (time-to-live) period for its data.   Note  that  the  shadow  file  is
       specifically  not  cached.   getspnam(3)  calls  remain  uncached  as a
       result.

OPTIONS
       --help will give you a list with all options and what they do.

NOTES
       The daemon will try to watch for changes in configuration files  appro‐
       priate  for each database (e.g., /etc/passwd for the passwd database or
       /etc/hosts and /etc/resolv.conf for the hosts database), and flush  the
       cache  when  these are changed.  However, this will happen only after a
       short delay (unless the inotify(7) mechanism is available and glibc 2.9
       or later is available), and this auto-detection does not cover configu‐
       ration files required by nonstandard NSS modules, if any are  specified
       in  /etc/nsswitch.conf.   In  that  case, you need to run the following
       command after changing the configuration file of the database  so  that
       nscd invalidates its cache:

           $ nscd -i <database>

SEE ALSO
       nscd.conf(5), nsswitch.conf(5)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part of release 3.55 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting  bugs,  can
       be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                               2012-05-10                           NSCD(8)
